README.md, before:

Code Quality and Security for Java [![Build Status](https://api.cirrus-ci.com/github/SonarSource/sonar-java.svg?branch=master)](https://cirrus-ci.com/github/SonarSource/sonar-java) [![Quality Gate](https://next.sonarqube.com/sonarqube/api/project_badges/measure?project=org.sonarsource.java%3Ajava&metric=alert_status)](https://next.sonarqube.com/sonarqube/dashboard?id=org.sonarsource.java%3Ajava) [![Coverage](https://next.sonarqube.com/sonarqube/api/project_badges/measure?project=org.sonarsource.java%3Ajava&metric=coverage)](https://next.sonarqube.com/sonarqube/component_measures/domain/Coverage?id=org.sonarsource.java%3Ajava)
==========

This SonarSource project is a code analyzer for Java projects. Information about the analysis of Java features is available [here](https://redirect.sonarsource.com/plugins/java.html).

Features
--------

* 600+ rules (including 150+ bug detection rules and 350+ code smells)
* Metrics (cognitive complexity, number of lines etc.)
* Import of [test coverage reports](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/PLUG/Code+Coverage+by+Unit+Tests+for+Java+Project)
* [Custom rules](https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/analysis/languages/java/)

Useful links
------------

* [Project homepage](https://redirect.sonarsource.com/plugins/java.html)
* [Issue tracking](https://jira.sonarsource.com/browse/SONARJAVA/)
* [Available rules](https://rules.sonarsource.com/java)
* [Sonar Community Forum](https://community.sonarsource.com/)
* [Demo project analysis](https://next.sonarqube.com/sonarqube/dashboard?id=org.sonarsource.java%3Ajava)
* [Plugin Wiki](https://github.com/SonarSource/sonar-java/wiki)

Have question or feedback?
--------------------------

To provide feedback (request a feature, report a bug etc.) use the [Sonar Community Forum](https://community.sonarsource.com/). Please do not forget to specify the language (Java!), plugin version and SonarQube version.

If you have a question on how to use plugin (and the [docs](https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/analysis/languages/java/) don't help you), we also encourage you to use the community forum.

Contributing
------------

### Topic in SonarQube Community Forum

To request a new feature, please create a new thread in [SonarQube Community Forum](https://community.sonarsource.com/). Even if you plan to implement it yourself and submit it back to the community, please start a new thread first to be sure that we can use it.

### Pull Request (PR)

To submit a contribution, create a pull request for this repository. Please make sure that you follow our [code style](https://github.com/SonarSource/sonar-developer-toolset#code-style) and all [tests](#testing) are passing (all checks must be green).

### Custom Rules

If you have an idea for a rule but you are not sure that everyone needs it you can implement a [custom rule](https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/analysis/languages/java/) available only for you. Note that in order to help you, we highly recommend to first follow the [Custom Rules 101 tutorial](https://redirect.sonarsource.com/doc/java-custom-rules-guide.html) before diving directly into implementing rules from scratch.

### Work with us
Would you like to work on this project full-time? We are hiring! Check out https://www.sonarsource.com/hiring 


<a name="testing"></a>
Testing
-------

To run tests locally follow these instructions.

### Java versions

You need `Java 17` to build the project and run the Integration Tests (ITs).

### Build the Project and Run Unit Tests

To build the plugin and run its unit tests, execute this command from the project's root directory:

    mvn clean install

### Note that
Running unit tests within the IDE might incur in some issues because of the way the project is built with maven.
If you see something like this:
	
	java.lang.SecurityException: class ... signer information does not match signer information of other classes in the same package
	
try removing the Maven nature of the 'jdt' module. 

### Integration Tests

To run integration tests, you will need to create a properties file like the one shown below, and set the url pointing to its location in an environment variable named `ORCHESTRATOR_CONFIG_URL`.

    # version of SonarQube Server
    sonar.runtimeVersion=7.9

    orchestrator.updateCenterUrl=http://update.sonarsource.org/update-center-dev.properties

    # Location of Maven local repository is not automatically guessed. It can also be set with the env variable MAVEN_LOCAL_REPOSITORY.
    maven.localRepository=/home/myName/.m2/repository

With for instance the `ORCHESTRATOR_CONFIG_URL` variable being set as: 

    export ORCHESTRATOR_CONFIG_URL=file:///home/user/workspace/orchestrator.properties

Before running the ITs, be sure your MAVEN_HOME environment variable is set.

#### Sanity Test

The "Sanity Test" is a test which runs all checks against all the test sources files without taking into account the result of the analysis. It verifies that rules are not crashing on any file in our test sources. By default, this test is excluded from the build. To launch it:

    mvn clean install -P sanity

#### Plugin Test

The "Plugin Test" is an integration test suite which verifies plugin features such as metric calculation, coverage etc. To launch it:

    mvn clean install -Pit-plugin

Beware that some tests, specifically the `JspTest`, may fail due a missing or unauthorized Github token.

#### Ruling Test

The "Ruling Test" are an integration test suite which launches the analysis of a large code base, saves the issues created by the plugin in report files, and then compares those results to the set of expected issues (stored as JSON files).

To run the test, first make sure the submodules are checked out:

    git submodule update --init --recursive

Then, ensure that the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable is set for the ruling tests execution and that it points to your local JDK 17 installation.
Failing to do so will produce inconsistencies with the expected results.

From the `its/ruling` folder, launch the ruling tests:

    mvn clean install -DskipTests=false
    # Alternatively
    JAVA_HOME=/my/local/java17/jdk/ mvn clean install -DskipTests=false

This test gives you the opportunity to examine the issues created by each rule and make sure they're what you expect. Any implemented rule is highly likely to raise issues on the multiple projects we use as ruling code base.

* For newly implemented rule, it means that a first build will most probably fail, caused by differences between expected results (without any values for the new rule) and the new results. You can inspect these new issues by searching for files named after your rule (`squid-SXXXX.json`) in the following folder:

        /path/to/project/sonar-java/its/ruling/target/actual/...

* For existing rules which are modified, you may expect some differences between "actual" (from new analysis) and expected results. Review carefully the changes which are shown and update the expected resources accordingly.

All the  `json` files contain a list of lines, indexed by file, expliciting where the issues raised by a specific rule are located. If/When everything looks good to you, you can copy the file with the actual issues located at:

    its/ruling/target/actual/

Into the directory with the expected issues:

    its/ruling/src/test/resources/

For example using the command:

    cp its/ruling/target/actual/* its/ruling/src/test/resources/

#### Debugging Integration Tests
You can debug ITs by adding `-Dmaven.binary=mvnDebug` as an option when running the tests. This will cause the analyzer JVM to wait for a debugger to be attached before continuing.

### License

Copyright 2012-2022 SonarSource.

Licensed under the [GNU Lesser General Public License, Version 3.0](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.txt)

Commit message:

SONARJAVA-4408 Ruling tests fail for external contributors due to non-public dependencies

README.md, after:

Code Quality and Security for Java [![Build Status](https://api.cirrus-ci.com/github/SonarSource/sonar-java.svg?branch=master)](https://cirrus-ci.com/github/SonarSource/sonar-java) [![Quality Gate](https://next.sonarqube.com/sonarqube/api/project_badges/measure?project=org.sonarsource.java%3Ajava&metric=alert_status)](https://next.sonarqube.com/sonarqube/dashboard?id=org.sonarsource.java%3Ajava) [![Coverage](https://next.sonarqube.com/sonarqube/api/project_badges/measure?project=org.sonarsource.java%3Ajava&metric=coverage)](https://next.sonarqube.com/sonarqube/component_measures/domain/Coverage?id=org.sonarsource.java%3Ajava)
==========

This SonarSource project is a code analyzer for Java projects. Information about the analysis of Java features is available [here](https://redirect.sonarsource.com/plugins/java.html).

Features
--------

* 600+ rules (including 150+ bug detection rules and 350+ code smells)
* Metrics (cognitive complexity, number of lines etc.)
* Import of [test coverage reports](https://docs.sonarqube.org/display/PLUG/Code+Coverage+by+Unit+Tests+for+Java+Project)
* [Custom rules](https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/analysis/languages/java/)

Useful links
------------

* [Project homepage](https://redirect.sonarsource.com/plugins/java.html)
* [Issue tracking](https://jira.sonarsource.com/browse/SONARJAVA/)
* [Available rules](https://rules.sonarsource.com/java)
* [Sonar Community Forum](https://community.sonarsource.com/)
* [Demo project analysis](https://next.sonarqube.com/sonarqube/dashboard?id=org.sonarsource.java%3Ajava)
* [Plugin Wiki](https://github.com/SonarSource/sonar-java/wiki)

Have question or feedback?
--------------------------

To provide feedback (request a feature, report a bug etc.) use the [Sonar Community Forum](https://community.sonarsource.com/). Please do not forget to specify the language (Java!), plugin version and SonarQube version.

If you have a question on how to use plugin (and the [docs](https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/analysis/languages/java/) don't help you), we also encourage you to use the community forum.

Contributing
------------

### Topic in SonarQube Community Forum

To request a new feature, please create a new thread in [SonarQube Community Forum](https://community.sonarsource.com/). Even if you plan to implement it yourself and submit it back to the community, please start a new thread first to be sure that we can use it.

### Pull Request (PR)

To submit a contribution, create a pull request for this repository. Please make sure that you follow our [code style](https://github.com/SonarSource/sonar-developer-toolset#code-style) and all [tests](#testing) are passing (all checks must be green).

### Custom Rules

If you have an idea for a rule but you are not sure that everyone needs it you can implement a [custom rule](https://docs.sonarqube.org/latest/analysis/languages/java/) available only for you. Note that in order to help you, we highly recommend to first follow the [Custom Rules 101 tutorial](https://redirect.sonarsource.com/doc/java-custom-rules-guide.html) before diving directly into implementing rules from scratch.

### Work with us
Would you like to work on this project full-time? We are hiring! Check out https://www.sonarsource.com/hiring 


<a name="testing"></a>
Testing
-------

To run tests locally follow these instructions.

### Java versions

You need `Java 17` to build the project and run the Integration Tests (ITs).

### Build the Project and Run Unit Tests

To build the plugin and run its unit tests, execute this command from the project's root directory:

    mvn clean install

### Note that
Running unit tests within the IDE might incur in some issues because of the way the project is built with maven.
If you see something like this:
	
	java.lang.SecurityException: class ... signer information does not match signer information of other classes in the same package
	
try removing the Maven nature of the 'jdt' module. 

### Integration Tests

To run integration tests, you will need to create a properties file like the one shown below, and set the url pointing to its location in an environment variable named `ORCHESTRATOR_CONFIG_URL`.

    # version of SonarQube Server
    sonar.runtimeVersion=7.9

    orchestrator.updateCenterUrl=http://update.sonarsource.org/update-center-dev.properties

    # Location of Maven local repository is not automatically guessed. It can also be set with the env variable MAVEN_LOCAL_REPOSITORY.
    maven.localRepository=/home/myName/.m2/repository

With for instance the `ORCHESTRATOR_CONFIG_URL` variable being set as: 

    export ORCHESTRATOR_CONFIG_URL=file:///home/user/workspace/orchestrator.properties

Before running the ITs, be sure your MAVEN_HOME environment variable is set.

#### Sanity Test

The "Sanity Test" is a test which runs all checks against all the test sources files without taking into account the result of the analysis. It verifies that rules are not crashing on any file in our test sources. By default, this test is excluded from the build. To launch it:

    mvn clean install -P sanity

#### Plugin Test

The "Plugin Test" is an integration test suite which verifies plugin features such as metric calculation, coverage etc. To launch it:

    mvn clean install -Pit-plugin -DcommunityEditionTestsOnly=true

Note for internal contributors: in order to execute also the tests that depend on the SonarQube Enterprise Edition, use:

    mvn clean install -Pit-plugin

#### Ruling Test

The "Ruling Test" are an integration test suite which launches the analysis of a large code base, saves the issues created by the plugin in report files, and then compares those results to the set of expected issues (stored as JSON files).

To run the test, first make sure the submodules are checked out:

    git submodule update --init --recursive

Then, ensure that the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable is set for the ruling tests execution and that it points to your local JDK 17 installation.
Failing to do so will produce inconsistencies with the expected results.

From the `its/ruling` folder, launch the ruling tests:

    mvn clean install -Pit-ruling -DcommunityEditionTestsOnly=true 
    # Alternatively
    JAVA_HOME=/my/local/java17/jdk/ mvn clean install -Pit-ruling -DcommunityEditionTestsOnly=true

Note for internal contributors: in order to execute also the tests that depend on the SonarQube Enterprise Edition, use: 

    mvn clean install -Pit-ruling

This test gives you the opportunity to examine the issues created by each rule and make sure they're what you expect. Any implemented rule is highly likely to raise issues on the multiple projects we use as ruling code base.

* For newly implemented rule, it means that a first build will most probably fail, caused by differences between expected results (without any values for the new rule) and the new results. You can inspect these new issues by searching for files named after your rule (`squid-SXXXX.json`) in the following folder:

        /path/to/project/sonar-java/its/ruling/target/actual/...

* For existing rules which are modified, you may expect some differences between "actual" (from new analysis) and expected results. Review carefully the changes which are shown and update the expected resources accordingly.

All the  `json` files contain a list of lines, indexed by file, expliciting where the issues raised by a specific rule are located. If/When everything looks good to you, you can copy the file with the actual issues located at:

    its/ruling/target/actual/

Into the directory with the expected issues:

    its/ruling/src/test/resources/

For example using the command:

    cp its/ruling/target/actual/* its/ruling/src/test/resources/

#### Debugging Integration Tests
You can debug ITs by adding `-Dmaven.binary=mvnDebug` as an option when running the tests. This will cause the analyzer JVM to wait for a debugger to be attached before continuing.

### License

Copyright 2012-2022 SonarSource.

Licensed under the [GNU Lesser General Public License, Version 3.0](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.txt)
